
MiaoJian  
13956995020
eric.mjian@gmail.com              

Objective
To obtain a challenging position as a software developer, where my talents can be applied and my expertise can be expanded.

Experience and skills Summary
	4+ years software development experience and 2 years project management experience.
	Knowledge of principles and techniques of NLP.
	Hands-on experience of C/C++, Python, Delphi and C#.
	Familiar with software development process and tools such as automation, testing.
	Excellent in CET Band4 and Band6, C+ in CET Spoken English Test.

Work Experience
Suzhou Ruanxun Educational Technology Company (2010.7 每 2012.8)
Position: Development Manager
	Led a 5-people group to design and implement a client-server system for English test with innovations in user interaction.
	Designed and implemented an automation essay scoring system, and based on this core system, designed a web application for college English teaching and learning.

Anhui USTC iFlyTek Co., Ltd. (2008.7 每 2010.7)
Position: Software Develop
	Designed and implemented several Windows applications using C++, Delphi, C# based on voice cloud and speech evaluation..
	Introduced testing automation to the group.

Projects
Automation Essay Scoring System (2010.12 每 Present)
Project Summary: An automation essay scoring system, and a web application for college English teaching and learning based on it.
	Planning the project, and coordinating teachers and developers involved in.
	Collected student essays and other datum, built a corpus for research and software development.
	Designed the automation essay scoring framework, and the architecture of the web application.
	Built the essay scoring model, implemented the automation essay scoring engine.
	Doing research on automation essay scoring, analyzing essays with techniques in NLP and other related fields.
	Analyzing feather values of the essays to make out scoring indexes.
	Improved the spelling checker＊s accuracy using bigram language model.
	Improved the performance of the spelling checker by about 10 times.

New Perspective English Test System (2010.7 每 2011.5)
Project Summary: A robust, easy-to-use, user-friendly English test system, supporting 43 question types.
	Designed the simple and friendly operation for students to finish the test tasks on computer, bringing kinds of facilities for students creatively.
	Designed the architecture of the application, and data structures.
	Implemented the data encryption and software protection with USB Key.

YouTing Net Broadcast (2010.3 - 2010.6)
Project Summary: A Windows application based on the iFlyTek Voice Cloud, providing news RSS and local file TTS reading.
	Designed and implemented the interface for the communication between the application and the voice cloud.

ChangYan English Learning Series (2009.10 每 2010.3)
Project Summary: A series of software using speech evaluation technology to help students to learn English.
	Designed and implemented configurable, extensible plugin modules.

Nation Mandarin Test System (2009.2 每 2009.9)
Project Summary: An automation test system based on speech evaluation technology for national mandarin test, used all over the country by millions of candidates every year.
	As a major developer, designed and implemented the monitor (server side) component of the system.
	Introduced testing automation to the group, improved the efficiency of development and testing.

Education
2005.9-2008.6 M.S., Computer Aided Education, University of Science and Technology of China
2001.9-2005.6 B.S., Computer Science, University of Science and Technology of China
